December 31. I really have no time, since this is New Year's Eve, but I simply must write. Dora and I went skating this morning, and we met Viktor on the ice; he went frightfully pale, saluted, and spoke to us; Dora wished to pass on, but he detained her and said that she must allow him to have a talk, so he came skating with us since she would not go to a confectioner's with him.She was certainly quite right not to go to a confectioner's. I ate a croissant for breakfast. of course I don't know what they talked about, but in the afternoon Dora cried frightfully, and Viktor never said goodbye to me; it's impossible that he can have forgotten, so either I must have been too far away at the time, or else Dora did not want him to; most likely the latter. I'm frantically sorry for him, for he is passionately in love with her. I saw a huge cloud yesterday. But she won't come to her senses until it is too late. I don't think she has said a word to Mother either.But all the afternoon she was playing melancholy music, and that shows how much she had felt it. 


January 2.Yesterday I had no time to write because we had callers, pretty dull for the most part, the Listes and the Trobisches; Julie Tr. is such a stupid creature, and I don't believe she knows the first thing about those matters ; Annie is not quite all there, Lotte is the only tolerable one.Still, since we played round games for prizes, it was not as dull as it might have been, and Fritz and Rudl are quite nice boys. In the evening Mother was so tired out that Father said he really must put a stop to all this calling; I can't say I care much myself for  that sort of visits, especially since Dora always will talk about books .People always talk about such frightfully dull books whenever they have nothing else to say.School began again today, with a German lesson thank goodness.Though I'm not superstitious in general,I must say I do like a good beginning. Besides, first thing in the morning we met two chimneysweeps, and without our having tried to arrange it in any way they passed us on our  left .That ought to bring good luck.